# Healthcare Stockmarket Analysis

During every U.S. presidential election, the healthcare sector goes through many fluxes creating both opportunities and challenges for investors. It is a topic of great discord between the two major political parties, with each proposing a wide range of regulations on the industry which affect their functioning in the long run. In this project, we choose 10 healthcare related companies and perform statistical analysis on log-returns of their daily closing stock prices during the election period. We use this data to analyze the healthcare sector and forecast future stock behavior. This will provide an investor with insights that can assist in making an informed decision about which stocks to invest in, along with the general market trend.

The healthcare industry comprising of hospital services, medical equipment, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, is vastly influenced by regulatory and economic policy issues. Even though the demand for these products and services is largely inelastic given its indispensable nature, political rhetoric brings volatility and uncertainty to this market.

Towards this, we examined certain characteristics of each stock taken either one-at-a-time or two-at-a-time. We calculated log-returns of the closing stock prices, and tested if the data was normally distributed. Next, we estimated the confidence intervals for the mean and variance of each stock, and performed a regression of the log-return on time. Lastly, we performed graphical analysis on the stocks to forecast their future values. Subsequently, using two-stocks, we tested the equality of the two population means, and performed a regression of one log-return on another. Consequently, we used this data to forecast the future stock prices.

Project by - Keshava Dilwali, Akshan Mehta, Rohan Talati (Columbia University)
